[Music]
what is up
youtube it's your girl evelyn and i am
back with the
season four episode 2 recap of winona
earth
as always there will be spoilers so
proceed with caution
episode 2 begins in the garden of eden
crypt
where doc has just stumbled upon a very
naked sheriff hot
who seems to have appeared out of thin
air unfortunately
nicole is surrounded by an invisible
force field
and she has no memory of how she arrived
in the garden
doc fetches waverly who's understandably
shocked
but also thrilled to see her lady
meanwhile
back in monument wynonna and rachel are
still
ducking and dodging the army of zombie
scientists at the abandoned bbd facility
and after watching nicole fall through a
grate then
plummet into oblivion rachel is fairly
certain that sheriff hot
has been eaten by zombies but there's a
tiny chance
she may have survived if she fell into
the gate room
according to rachel bbd's pre-zombie
scientists
were hard at work on some kind of
inter-dimensional gateway
that black badge tried to weaponize but
when the gateway
finally opened something made bbd panic
and subsequently gas everyone winona and
rachel
don hazmat suits and fight their way
into the gate room
where they find and injured nicole who
was just seconds away from being eaten
by the zombie daniel radcliffe but that
begs the question
if nicole is alive in purgatory who in
the heck is hanging out with waverly and
doc
in the garden imposter nicole is
beginning to let her true color show
she tells waverly that god hasn't made
an appearance in the garden for
quite some time and she's becoming
downright obsessed
with breaking out of the force field as
waverly
puzzles over impostor nicole's erratic
behavior
julian's throne has developed the
ability to talk
or at least chant and it's been calling
out to waverly
whose struggling to resist it and while
all of this
is going on the crypt monster is once
again
hungry and this time it's doc's turn
defeated
but before he can test out his vampire
blood
the crypt shows him a set of marble
pillars with nicole's photo on one side
and a demon's photo on the other back in
monument
the gang finally locates rachel's mother
gloria valdez
well her corpse anyway and when wynonna
tries to open it
rachel turns on her
[Music]
gloria valdez died trying to keep the
portal closed
and rachel won't let her mother's death
be in vain
in the garden imposter nicole is finally
freed of the invisible force field
and we find out that she's none other
than eve
the first lady of rough riders
doc and eve go at it and during their
fight eve
shape-shifts first into jeremy
then into wynonna but doc sees through
the distraction
and stabs eve into a pillar with the
world's sharpest pair of shears
afterward he tries to get waverly as far
away from eve as possible
but while he was busy fighting eve
waverly
went full throttle angel she tells doc
that eve
must not be allowed to leave the garden
then
she does the bobo brain fry on him minus
the killing part
back in monument wynonna talks rachel
down
and loki threatens to kill her and after
a few technical difficulties
they open the doorway rachel
and an injured nicole stay behind to
face the horde of zombie scientists
about to break in
while wynonna jumps through the portal
the moment she steps inside the garden
she sees eve pinned to the pillar where
doc left her
the doppelgangers have a quick
conversation in which eve
threatens to eat everyone alive before
wynonna
excuses herself to go find doc and
waverly
she finds doc first and uses their safe
word to convince him
she's the real wynonna they soon find
waverly
and the bad news is she's been chilling
on julian's throne
the good news is she hasn't turned to
stone
yet while wynonna tries to convince
waverly to come home
that crafty eve escapes from the pillar
and goes up against doc
for round two apparently eve
really wants to get out of the garden
and into the ghost river triangle
so she can finally get what she's owed
doc kicks eve
through one of the freestanding doors
which in retrospect
may not have been the best idea with eve
temporarily out of the way
wynonna struggles to reach waverly and
just when it looks as if
waverly is going to stay in the garden
forever wynonna pulls out the
bull shar slash julian slash way hot
engagement ring
the ring snaps waverly out of her garden
trance and she gets off the throne
the gang eventually locates a portal
home but before they pass through it
waverly throws her super powerful ring
into the sinister
and possibly possessed garden where i'm
sure
nothing bad will find it and use it for
evil wynonna doc and waverly all wake up
in different parts of purgatory wynonna
at the magical staircase
doc at the well along with waverly
satchel
in the book she chose in episode 1 and
waverly awakens on the homestead
where she is greeted by the long-haired
and uninjured
sheriff hot but before they can swap
stories
the two lovers have some more
pressing business to attend to
afterward nicole explains to waverly
that after her leg healed
nicole hunkered down on the earth
homestead awaiting their return
that was a year and a half ago we then
see
doc and wynonna reuniting in the middle
of town
and finding out that this isn't the same
purgatory
that they left and that is it for the
recap
thank you guys so much for watching and
don't forget to subscribe for more
winona earp
and i'll see you next week